What would you say
is the biggest single emotion
gripping people today?
Well, many would readily agree
that it’s fear.
Interestingly, in 1982, the book
You Can Live Forever
in Paradise on Earth said this:
“Fear is probably the biggest single emotion
in people’s lives today.”
And that comment by
“the faithful and discreet slave”
was based on Jesus’ words
in giving us a sign about the last days.
You know that in addition
to wars, earthquakes,
food shortages, and epidemics,
at Luke 21:11, the Bible tells us
that Jesus included “fearful sights,”
or “terrifying events,”
as indicated in the Study Bible.
At Luke 21:26,
do you recall the emotion that Jesus said
would overwhelm God’s enemies
as they looked ahead
in the near future
to seeing the sign of “the Son of man”?
It would be fear.
Jesus said:
“People will become faint out of fear
and expectation of the things coming
upon the inhabited earth.”
Well, what about us as Jehovah’s people?
As a group, we are nowhere near
being “faint out of fear,”
nor will we be as things worsen
as we approach the great tribulation.
Why not?
Simply put, it’s because
Jehovah has prepared us
to remain calm
when bad things happen in the world
or in our personal lives.
Think about one way
Jehovah prepared us
for the year 2020.
It was by giving us in the year 2019
the yeartext at Isaiah 41:10.
In our study of that yeartext last year,
we were reminded that a key
to not giving way to fear
is to meditate on
the three faith-building promises
contained in Isaiah 41:10.
Look at it again, please,
in Examining the Scriptures.
Do you see the three promises?
First, Jehovah will be with us;
second, he is our God;
and third, he will help us.
This morning, to illustrate
the reliability of those three guarantees,
we’ll consider some delightful experiences.
To begin, consider, please,
the experience of a sister we’ll call Anna
who is in prison for her faith.
Anna’s cellmate noticed
that Anna was not able to reply
to all the letters of encouragement
that she was receiving.
When this experience was compiled
last November,
do you know how many letters
our sister had received?
More than 1,700.
So her cellmate in a friendly way
offered to be Anna’s secretary.
According to Anna, this cellmate agreed
that she would read
each letter very carefully
and then consult with Anna
about how to respond.
She became so good at the job
that she even would respond
to letters by herself.
Well, Anna’s circumstances in prison
were not ideal.
One day, a prison guard
conducted an inspection of the cell
and asked Anna to give him her Bible.
She begged him not to take it away,
but he did anyway.
Anna started to cry.
Then something unexpected happened.
Surprisingly, Anna’s other cellmates
started making a lot of noise
and began beating on the cell doors
demanding that the Bible
be returned immediately to Anna.
They told the guard,
“To Anna the Bible
is more important than food”
because they had regularly
seen her reading that Bible.
Eventually, the guard returned
the Bible to our sister.
Later, Anna confronted another test in jail.
Two of the prisoners in her cell
were in jail for criminal activity,
and they were singing Gypsy songs one day
about their criminal life.
Even though our sister
did not completely understand
the language they were using,
she suspected that their singing
included some vulgar speech.
Immediately, Anna prayed to Jehovah
and asked that he correct the situation.
And again, something unexpected happened.
Suddenly, one of the Gypsy women
began singing one of our Kingdom songs.
Anna was shocked.
She asked,
“How do you know this song?”
And then Anna joined her
in finishing the song.
As it turned out,
this Gypsy woman’s mother
had studied the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses
and during that time
her daughter who is now in prison
had memorized the Kingdom song.
Anna said that this experience was proof
that Jehovah responds very quickly to prayers
and that he can even use non-Witnesses
to encourage his servants.
Well, brothers and sisters,
in thinking about the promise
in Isaiah 41:10,
can there be any doubt
that Jehovah is with Anna
and with all of our imprisoned
brothers and sisters at this time?
Even when cut off from family and friends,
Jehovah gives his servants his full affection
and attention.
A second experience received last July
highlights the fact that Jehovah is our God,
the second assurance in Isaiah 41:10.
A brother we will call Peter reported this,
and I quote:
“During the first few months of imprisonment,
I was placed in solitary confinement.
“I felt downhearted and began to dream of
a shepherding visit.
“I thought about how good it would be
“to talk with two brothers in ties.
“I had heard that in some congregations
when someone received a shepherding visit,
“they would say, after the fact,
that ‘the ties’ came to visit me.
“I too wanted such a visit,
so I prayed:
“‘Jehovah, I understand
that this is practically impossible now,
but I want “the ties” to come visit me.’”
Peter goes on to state:
“After a short time,
I received a letter with a card.
“The card was made in the form of
a pink shirt with a yellow tie.”
You’ll see it on the monitors.
“In the card,” Peter said,
“were the words from the song
Shepherds—Gifts in Men,
our song 103.”
Brothers and sisters, can you imagine
how Peter felt at that moment?
How did he view Jehovah?
He continues:
“This was the answer to my prayer.
“A real shepherding visit.
“This encouraged me more than
I could have imagined.
“It was one of the best days
during that difficult time.
“With tears, I thanked Jehovah
for his support.
“I saw tangible evidence of Jehovah’s care
for my emotional needs.
I will keep this card
as a treasured memento.”
Well, do we see how Jehovah
proved true to that second assurance?
“I am your God.”
Jehovah answered Peter’s need
in an unexpected but very tender way.
In discussing this part of Isaiah 41:10,
The Watchtower acknowledged
that now more than ever
we need to remember who is in control.
People around us are in fear
because so many things seem out of control.
And while we’re affected by
the same problems that affect other people,
we know, based on Jehovah’s assurances,
that there’s no need for us to be afraid.
The problems people face today
are like the strong winds
that might rock an airplane during flight.
Some passengers naturally panic.
But why do we remain calm?
Because we know who our pilot is.
It is Jehovah our God.
Let’s consider one more experience
that connects well with Isaiah 41:10,
where Jehovah says:
“I will help you.”
In Illinois, we have a dear anointed sister
by the name of Antonia,
who is 90 years old.
She is homebound
and does not have a mobile device
nor access to the Internet.
Due to the pandemic,
she was very nervous about
being home alone
last week for the Memorial.
So how did Jehovah help Antonia?
The congregation worked out a plan
so that she could observe the Memorial
with another sister present
without risking their health.
Patty, a close friend,
offered to assist Antonia
if it would be safe to do so.
So a doctor was consulted,
and he provided detailed instructions
that would keep both sisters safe,
which included the use of gloves and masks
and sanitizing the plate and the cup
that would be used for the emblems.
When the plan was presented
to our sister Antonia,
she was asked
if she would like Patty to assist.
She replied,
“With all my heart.”
So our two sisters listened together
to the Memorial talk last week.
Antonia partook of the emblems
with tears in her eyes.
With heartfelt emotion she said,
“I pray to Jehovah to help me
stay worthy and faithful.”
Brothers and sisters,
these true-to-life experiences
are heartwarming, aren’t they?
And what Jehovah has done
for Anna, Peter, and Antonia
proves what The Watchtower said,
and I quote:
“No force in the universe
can make Jehovah abandon his love
for those who serve him;
his loyalty to us is unshakable.”
Well, would you like to strengthen
your confidence in Jehovah,
our God and our Father?
Today, why not meditate deeply
on Isaiah 41:10?
If possible, commit those verses to memory.
And let’s keep working
to get to know Jehovah better
by regularly reading
the Bible carefully and meditating
on what we read.
Then, as we face trials together,
we’ll move ahead with full confidence
that Jehovah is with us.
We’ll do so with faith, not fear.